So we'll start to get a bit
more technical now and
apply things to actually go and
improve accessibility that we see.
Our code base, we'll use React, but
this stuff applies no matter what type
of a front end stack you're using.
So you could be working with
the hottest new JavaScript framework.
I really enjoyed Svelte recently.
Speaking of data visualizations with D3,
you could be generating things that way.
Or you could use Astro or
use GraphQL APIs or
whatever the framework of
the week happens to be.
If it generating a front end
that users are interacting with,
accessibility is a concern.
So maybe something you could do,
especially if you're newer to a framework,
but maybe you're more familiar with HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript,
an approach you could take would be
to do some prototyping upfront before
translating it into a framework.
That's something I do a lot when I
just need to tell kind of quickly in
a lightweight manner,
is this going to work?
Before I go and do all of the work
of integrating it into my stack,
I might do a lighter weight version of it.
Maybe I do use React.
I like React, but just saying
that if you have constraints that
it would benefit you,
you can consider doing some prototyping
to just feel more free while you're
testing out an idea or an experiment.
And whether your output is in HTML,
CSS, or in JavaScript,
or more robust framework,
the basic always apply.
So it really is about what gets rendered.
Is it well structured using as many
default HTML elements as possible?
Cuz there's a lot, so
what do I mean by well structured?
So HTML provides structural semantics,
they're really helpful in screen readers.
We saw earlier there were landmark
elements, and buttons, and forms,
all of those elements that
are not divs have meaning.
[LAUGH] As we'll learn about,
we did learn about the accessibility tree,
and so that you might start to be able
to connect how tags become objects.
It's a very robust process that,
if we use semantic HTML elements,
we can help that out by actually
creating an accessible structure.
So it's non visual, and it really goes
beyond the way that something looks.
There are so many defaults these days,
fortunately,
form elements are getting
easier to style here in 2023,
we have some easier to
style form elements.
Never thought I'd see it, I'm very
happy to see it, though, it's awesome.
I think form elements being hard to style
are how the legacy of inaccessible stuff
came about was because we were trying
to meet client, needs customer needs.
We couldn't style it and
still use the default HTML element.
Well, it's really hard to replace some of
that functionality because we get a lot
for free with things like links and
select, trying to create a custom select.
There's features in that component
that you might not even realize.
So you have to recreate those.
If you make your own version,
it can be done,
just to say it can be done accessibly
as well, but you don't have to.
If you can advocate for using the default
HTML element, pose it as, hey,
we're gonna save time and money,
[LAUGH] you might be able to convince
your teammates off of the heavily
styled customization ledge and
just use the default thing, potentially.
So I would recommend checking
out a Mozilla developer network,
their list of HTML elements.
I learned something new
every time I look at that.
I'll even go and refresh my memory of, how
does that element or that attribute work?
I've been doing a lot of stuff
with forms recently, and so
I definitely went and
looked at the reference to go and
make sure that I was aware of everything
available to me with the defaults.
So when it comes to HTML, we wanna
use semantic HTML whenever we can.
We also use generic HTML like divs and
spans as wrapper elements.
They're great for styling.
I do a lot of layout with CSS Grid and
Flexbox.
And so,
I'm definitely adding generic elements
to give the right structure to
match my layouts and things.
But those sort of get ignored,
those divs are not going to be put in
the accessibility tree, only semantic HTML
elements will, so we need a combo of both.
So, I have kind of a funny graphic
here from South Park that says,
a Marklar walks into a Marklar.
Marklar ask the Marklar,
do you have any Marklar?
The Marklar shakes its Marklar and
says no, we only have Marklar.
That would basically be an analogue
to div soup all the way down,
just like divs solid.
So that's what we wanna avoid.
Here's a screenshot of div soup.
It's a long tree structure
of div div div div div.
There's no accessibility information here.
I see a div role button buried
in there that ARIA disabled.
But it's a div,
it's not focusable from what I can tell.
So it might as well just be a div cuz it
doesn't have all the other things that it
would need.
I think that might,
I see a role progress bar.
[LAUGH] Otherwise,
I think that might be the most divs
I've seen in one place in a long time.
So I think we can do more than that.
I mean, any web page is
probably gonna have a need for
more semantic HTML, so
we should use what we can.
So starting with headings,
we can use h1 through h6 headings
to create an overall page outline.
We wanna try and choose the right
heading level for the content,
not based on the way it looks.
So that's kind of pitfall
number one of what I see a lot,
is you'll get class names or
heading styles,
they're called h1 through h4,
whatever, you have a style guide.
And the design just leads you down
this path of choosing the heading
level based on the way it looks,
cuz that's in the design, right?
Well, we need to pick the heading
level based on what the content is.
So if there's an overall page
structure that we can slot this into,
like h2 comes after h1, h3 comes after h2,
and it creates that structure, right?
I think of it like in Microsoft Word,
how there's an outline that you can make
with Roman numerals and Google Docs.
Everything's indented and it all falls
under everything hierarchically.
That's what headings will do,
they will create that structure so
that if you can't see the screen,
you can still digest it and
get an idea of the hierarchy of content.
There was, at one time, an HTML5
heading algorithm that sort of has been
haunting us because it was never really
implemented for assistive technology.
The idea there was that you could
start h1s over again in excerpts, so
they were more portable,
but it never really worked.
So, we wanna scratch that,
[LAUGH] unfortunately, and
have an overall page outline.
So, one h1, we try and go in order,
just so that the content does kind of,
you can tell from looking at just
the heading structure what's on it.
So, landmark elements.
Question?
>> So it might be related and
feel free to find it if it's not.
But I guess on a similar note when
you're using React components, or
any kind of like UI library,
how do you figure out what a heading
should be when you're trying
to make a reusable component.
Because it feels, ell, if I placed
this heading here, it's an h2 for now,
but then if I place it in this other part
of the UI that gets great, months from
now and like I didn't anticipate any of
this, what heading level should it be?
It feels like maybe the options like
polymorphic components where you just set
it when you're using it, but
I don't know if you have any other tips?
>> Yes, so great question.
I'm glad you mentioned it.
So, when you have to plug a component in
and you can't guarantee where it goes,
I think the the option I've used for that
is to make the heading level configurable.
So, being something you pass in.
It would be nice if that was automatic.
So I don't know of any tools
that are automatic like that.
I mean, maybe Facebook has something like
that cuz they're huge and super advanced.
But you if you can pass in
heading level to a component,
you can have React kind of combine
the tag name you pass in, and
you can generate elements based on
tag names dynamically that way.
So that's one technique.
There is an ARIA role of
heading with ARIA level.
It's not great because then
you're putting ARIA on something,
rather than using the default,
which is the h1 through h6 tag.
And you'd still have to figure
out what level it had to be.
The only thing it would save
you is not having to generate
an element kind of dynamically.
But I think if you're gonna do one,
you might as well use
the default HTML element first.
But yeah, I'd say probably
passing in the heading level.
It's not that elegant.
I guess if you had some way to
magically just read the overall page,
it would have to be
done at compile time or
something, and
that seems maybe too magical.
It might be not the most elegant to put
pass in tag names when you're using them,
but it's also not too magical.
So it's easy to grok, I think that code
that's easy to understand has benefits.
Okay.